<div style="text-align: justify">
<span style="text-align:justify;">After Smart phone era, a new era of smart wearables has arrived. Various kind of wearable and implantable sensors are available in the market in the form of smart watches, smart jewellery, fitness tracker etc. This kind of technologies always galvanized engineer in me. Also, I had few subjects on Instrumentation and regular sensors in my undergraduate and wanted to take my knowledge to next level. The coursework comprised of a list of different sensors, their working, and real-world applications. I was introduced to sensors which had applications not just in the field of electronics, but also biomedical, industrial, defence and Internet of Things applications.<br></span>
  <br>
<span style="text-align:justify;">The EE526 class always started with a video of an upcoming cellular phone technology or an already existing technology which changed the world of electronics. Accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, proximity sensors, etc were the few of sensors taught in the class. The coursework had a number of homework, assignments and projects. The homework and assignments always made me think out of the box as it was not something that is just given in the books or lecture slides. They were always based on my imagination, some technologies which is not practically possible in today’s world but would be possible in near future which helped me in increasing my thinking capability. <br></span> 
 <br>
<span style="text-align:justify;">One specific assignment that I remember is Radar-based gesture-recognition through a wearable device. It was something that is not yet made commercial and still I know how it works and why so. As the course progressed, the unimaginable potential of the smallest of the small sensors unfolded in front of me and I realized the major contribution they play to make our life easier day by day. The Final project was based on developing an Android Application to demonstrate the sensor data of my smartphone in real time. <br></span><br>
<span style="text-align:justify;">Android Studio, platform used to build the app, was a tremendous source of knowledge as I learnt how to develop an application from scratch. After a detailed study of the physical sensors present in my smartphone, my own Android Application was ready and it displayed real-time sensor data of Accelerometer, Light Sensor, Proximity, Magnetometer, Gyroscope. I added an additional feature of step detector. The app showed the number of steps I walked based on different sensor data. <br></span>
  <br>
<span style="text-align:justify;">Wearable and Implantable Sensors was one of the most intriguing course during my Masters degree. At the end, I would recommend students to take EE526, if they want to learn something unconventional and unorthodox. <br></span>
  <br>
</div>
